Narrator: EarSketch has
a console which tells us
information about the state
of a program.
This can tell us information
about what the program is doing,
but it can also tell us
information about errors
in our program
that may be very useful
in helping us to debug it.
Right now, we're going to look
at using the EarSketch console
to debug syntax errors
in a script.
The script I have
on the screen right now
has four syntax errors in it.
Pause the video
for a minute and see
if you can find all four.
Okay, now we're going
to use the EarSketch console
to try to help us
debug those errors.
The console always appears
right under the code editor.
And if you don't see it there
for some reason,
there's an icon over here,
which you can toggle
to get it to appear.
I'm going to go ahead
and press the run button
to run our script,
and immediately we have
an error message show up
in the console
about a syntax error
that we have.
It says to us,
"EarSketch scripts
must consist of init(),
"setTempo(),
and finish() functions."
We can see init().
We can see setTempo().
We do not see finish() anywhere,
so I can go ahead
and add a finish() function
to the end
and try to run this again.
Now we can see
that line 19 in my code editor
is highlighted,
and I have
a new error message down here.
It says,
"ParseError: There is an error
"when reading the code,
bad input on line 19."
And line 19 is the one
that's highlighted.
If I look at line 19
very carefully,
I can see I have
a sound file constant,
a track number,
a starting measure
and ending measure
as my arguments to fitMedia().
I am missing, however,
a comma between
the first two arguments.
So there was no comma
after the sound file constant.
I added that comma.
I'll let it run again.
And what do you know,
we still have a parse error
on line 19,
the exact same error message
we had before.
Well maybe there's
another error
on this line as well.
If you look through carefully,
we can see that fitMedia(),
the EarSketch function,
has a capital "M"
not a lowercase "m."
So I need to change
that lowercase "m"
to an uppercase "M."
A very common source
of syntax errors
is using incorrect spelling
or capitalization
on a function name
or a variable name.
Now I'll hit run again,
and I still have a parse error
on line 19.
At this point,
I'm going to look through
line 19 very carefully,
but it looks perfect to me.
And this is a common thing
that happens with debugging
is that the parse error
actually happens
the line after where
the error is happening.
And so you have to go back
up through your script
to the previous line
and see if there
might be an error there.
So go to the previous line—
line 18 is just a comment
and line 17 is just empty space—
so you actually have
to go back to line 16.
And here we see an error
as we have setTempo(120,
there's no parenthesis
at the end of the line there
closing out
this function argument.
So I add the parenthesis.
I hit run, and I've fixed
all four of the syntax errors.
I finally get the music
in my DAW,
and I can listen to it.
[electronic synth riff]